# Facial Recognition System to Automatically record attendance of Coventry University Students

Abstract:

Face is an important part of a person, it is used to identify and differentiate identities of two or more individuals in real world. Different parts of the body has been exploited over the recent years, to ensure that only the legitimate individual has access to their respective accounts both in real world and in virtual. Different methods have been created, one being Biometrics, which consists identifiers such as Fingerprint, Palm veins, DNA, Palm print and Face recognition etc. Similarly, This project seeks to use one distinctive identifier of Biometrics, Face Recognition. The project aims to combine Face Recognition with image processing techniques and Machine learning algorithms to be deployed as an Automated Attendance System for Coventry University. The Automated Attendance System should be able to help Coventry Students to make it easier for them to record their attendance by not having to be dependent with Card-systems, as Student cards are often lost and paid to replace. This means they cannot prove their identity and record attendance instantly. The card- system is also at fault often with inaccurate attendance recordings, as it can be tricked or cheated when individuals are able to record attendance for others, or crash of the system, paper-based system have to be used in this event. This makes more time consuming for students and makes it harder for them to focus on the session. This project’s objectives is to find out if facial recognition system is better at recording attendance than Card-based system/paper based system for Coventry University and it’s students by implementing a Facial Recognition System and reviewing the system with the students.

Client & Audience: Coventry University and its students.

Motivation: This project aims to help the students by making it easier for them to record their attendance, when students enter the classroom, a camera will scan their face and record their attendance in that specific lecture/lab session. This would save the students time because the current card system are queue based, which means that, for example, when there are 100-200 students in a single classroom, it will take a long time for each one to scan their student cards to record attendance. Paper-based system is used to record when the card-based system is at fault, this consumes more time for the session to start. It would also benefit the students when the students forget to bring or when they lose their students cards, this means they cannot record their attendance when they are in the session and they also have to pay for a replacement student card. This project aims to take the students mind off unnecessary things before a session and help them focus on the session, as soon as they enter the session. It also aims to improve incorrect attendance recordings, as card-base system and paper-based system can be falsely signed in for students that are not even in the session.

The project aims to help Coventry University by recording whereabouts of students, by tracking when a particular student enters and leaves sessions. This will help the university confirm that correct student is attending the session and follow-up on the students who are missing lots of sessions, correctly because some students do not bother to record their attendance with their students card even though they are attending the sessions and the staff of Coventry university have to do the chasing up to the students saving both students and staffs time, which can be indulged into other important matters.
